# Iron_dome
## _Detection, Tracking, Decision-making, Interception, Neutralizing._


The Iron_dome Tool is an advanced defense mechanism designed to safeguard your important files and folders from unauthorized access and changes. Developed with robust features, this tool acts as a vigilant guardian, constantly monitoring the specified folder or file for any suspicious activity.

- Powerful
- Easy to use
- ✨Eficient ✨

## Features

- The program runs in the background as a "daemon.o service."
- The program only works if it is executed by the root user. 
- The program monitors a critical area in perpetuity. This route is indicated as an argument.
- If more than one argument is indicated, these will correspond to the extensions of archive to observe. Otherwise, all files will be monitored.
- The program detects the intensive use of cryptographic activity.
- The program detects abuses in disk reading.
- The program detects changes in the entropy of the files.
- The program does not exceed 100MB of memory in use.


## Tech

This project was code on python and tested on docker.
    - Python 3.10.6
    - Docker version 24.0.2 build cb74dfc

## Installation

Python 3.10.6 or lastest.

Install the dependencies.

```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

The requirements.txt file has:

```sh
psutil==5.9.5
watchdog==3.0.0
```

## Usage
Iron_dome.py - Monitor a folder and provide real-time information about its files.

options:

```sh
-h, --help            show this help message and exit
--folders FOLDERS [FOLDERS ...]     List of folders, Default value = '/home'
--extensions EXTENSIONS [EXTENSIONS ...]    List of file extensions to filter, Default value = 'list_extensions'
```

An example of exage of the project would be:

```sh
python --folders [/home] [/usr/share] --extensions [.txt] [.pdf]
```
All monitoring logs generated by the folder and file monitoring tool will be saved in a designated location for easy access and reference. This storage location ensures that important information and events related to the monitored folders and files are securely recorded.

By centralizing the logs, users can efficiently review and analyze the activity within the monitored folders and files, helping to identify any potential security risks, unauthorized access, or suspicious behavior. This comprehensive log repository serves as a reliable source of information for auditing purposes, incident response, and overall system monitoring.

The logs capture various events, including file creations, modifications, deletions, and access attempts. Additionally, the tool monitors files with specific extensions, allowing users to focus on relevant file types of interest.

Maintaining a professional and formal approach to logging promotes effective monitoring and helps ensure the integrity and security of the monitored folders and files.
```sh
cat /var/log/irondome.log
```
## Docker


The Dockerfile configuration to create the enviroment where our project is tested was:
```sh
FROM python:3-slim-buster
COPY iron_dome.py /[path_container]/
RUN pip install watchdog && pip install --upgrade pip && pip install psutil
```
Go to the path where our docker file is and run the next command.
```sh
docker build -t iron_dome_image .
docker run -it --iron_dome_container iron_dome_image
docker start -i iron_dome_container
docker exec -it iron_dome_container bash
```
This will create the iron_dome image and pull in the necessary dependencies and copy our python project where we want ready to use.

## License

**Free Software, Happy days!**
